{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1.  Return Rate is growing at a faster rate than Sales (sum sales/return by year)\
	\
\
2. High Return Rate in August and September\
    High buying in back to school season (beginning fall) is followed immediately by high returns\
\
\
3.  Still show an increase in profit. (In those months) (dashboard 4)\
\
4.  Increase in Sales but also an Increase in Returns (*2.1) at the month of the year\
\
5.  Sales and Returns By Category Are Also Correlated (dashboard 2)\
\
6.  (Despite the increase in profit),  Return Rate varies by category.  2.2\
	Return rates with the total number of sales are good indicators of product success which categories are actually preferred by the customer  \
\
\
Dashboard Explained\
Dashboard 2\
\
    Overall, the return rate hovers above 20% and peaks at 40% in August.  The overall return rate peaks in August and September.  (You can click on the filters to see the return rate for a specific category).\
\
Office Supplies is the leading category in sales and returns with the largest sales in September, November and December and the most returns in August, September and December.  Both sales and returns are at the lowest point in with the largest dip in sales in January and February.\
\
We can see that the high return rate in these months leads to a drop in profit for Office Supplies, but the largest dip in profit is in July, seemingly unrelated from return rates.\
\
If the store can stop encouraging large purchases of these items (in particular Binders and Paper) if they are, since they are the leaders in returned items. (18 - Returned items by sub category)\
\
In terms of profit, Technology products made the most money, however, the still had a high rate of return in the fall months.  If we could decrease the returns on technology, we could increase our profit margin.\
\
7. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Breakdown by Customer\
\
This dashboard highlights the customers that had high return rates and high sales ( > $15,000).   We can see that many of these high sellers also had very high return rates and should be investigated further.  A high return rate on customers that had high value orders means a lot of high value stock sitting around, not being sold as well as unnecessary shipping cost for returns.\
i.e Are there more competitors for new stores they opened that caused them low sales and high return rate?  \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}